===== Finding a Connection =====

The above words flash off the screen into Chip's tired eyes, still sparkling pink. She sits grumbling at her cramped terminal on interview duty. She presses her ear to the speaker and surfs the radio frequencies for a new victim of journalism. Nothing but pops, electronic strobes, and distorted screams followed by static. She frowns and bangs on the receiver.

"Was this thing always this creepy?" she says to no one and slumps on her workstation.

A klaxon shocks her to attention.

The connection stabilizes, showing an astronaut from internal and external camera views. She beckons and taps gently, then haphazardly, on her microphone.

"Hellooo…! Is this thing on?" she says. Static crackles over the transmission.

The astronaut nods in response, his head bobbing, indifferent and stiff as his sealed spacer helm. Chip waits until she picks up the minuscule movement on her screen.

"Haha! Well, that's good. Wow! It's like they say, up there no one can hear you scream! Hahaha!" She bellows, slapping her bare belly.

The interviewer's guest stares bleary-eyed into the void, yearning for the aforementioned silence his host glibly destroyed.

"So who are you?" asks Chip.

"My name is…" he responds, and sighs at the absurdity. "Well, I worked on that space station just there, circling Jupiter in tandem with Io. Routine EVA maintenance. Now…? I guess I just float around in low orbit."

"I see~! And how long have you done that for?"

He reads the strobing red error lights on his visor. "About thirty minutes, and I plan to do so until I run out of air."

"I meant work on the station," she clarifies.

"Oh. I got the job after my wife died. The offer made it to my desk before, but I had prior commitments on the moon and to my family."

"So, because you didn't feel as tied down anymore, you ended up floating your way up here?"

The spaceman briefly considers puncturing his suit, but finds his tools dull and his will soft.

"Yeah, that's one way to put it."

"What do you think about the war on Io?"

"I never understood it, even less so with those women running around filming the whole thing, or rather, filming themselves in front of it. The situation looks so ridiculous from up topside; it's easy to forget it's affecting people's lives even here."

"It's certainly affected yours now, hasn't it?"

"It was only a matter of time. Not that long ago my wife was able to die a peaceful death away from all this." Particles of space trash clink against his suit. He watches the stars glitter in far-off worlds.

"You called the conflict ridiculous — what makes it different from the other alien invasions?"

"The frivolity of it. People have always been fighting, but there was a reason for it. I don't think anyone knows what this war is about."

"We're fighting the Bugs!"

"I understand!" Irritation starts to show on the astronaut's face. "But people remember what a shithole Io was before! There's a reason why it wasn't a juicy offer before my… Damn it! It's not just these little colonies; the whole smoking galaxy is just… waiting to die! And there's not a damn thing anyone can do about it."

"Oh! Well… What do you think about the v-tubers covering the invasion?"

"I…!?" He hears the O2 warnings and slows his breathing. He bats pieces of space debris away from his face.

"Sorry, busy day at work out here… The so-called war idols?" he snorts. "I understand them even less. Vapid whores finding the latest fad to line their pockets off pathetic men. So, that's all."

The insult doesn't faze Chip at all; in fact, she is loving the drama.

"You don't think their journalism has contributed anything?"

"Hah!" he spits. Hot blood returns to the doomed man's veins. "If you can even call it that! I haven't seen a single person tune into their streams who wasn't watching for them."

Something larger than the rest drifts into view, turning slow. He reaches for it without thinking: a glove, a sleeve, a shoulder. A man. He knows the suit before he knows the face. His boss, Han. His shriveled eyeballs, frozen wide, are clouded like dirty stained glass. They see nothing now. The sun, a million million miles away, rakes across his helmet, and the light is everywhere.

He finds his entire life inside the gleam. His point of view spirals out of his body into scattered colours of memories, years long past, lost in a kaleidoscope. Bright carmine shards of hopeful and brutal days with his dad and brothers on Mars. Dull purples and greens of more time behind the desk than he'd like to have spent. And… shining gold… A play button? Video messages from his wife. She is fixed in the center of the frame of whatever she looked forward to sharing with him that day. He remembers even the stupid nickname of the personal channel she posted her unlisted videos on. He remembers all of it, consumed by the frivolity of the woman he is watching for. Her little cartoon character is dancing with cats. They laugh and laugh and laugh forever, despite how unfunny it is.

And as the moment fades, laughter. He laughs. He laughs until his tears pool and break free in zero gravity. He grabs himself and moans and sputters like the day he was born.

"Uhm… hello? Are you OK!? Not now! I just got started!" Chip pleads with the receiver. "I-I think you're breaking up!" For the first time, the war, the world, does him a favour and spares his dignity.

But the cosmic magnanimity is short-lived — or backhanded: through the gale of debris, a blade of viewport glass careens and cuts his oxygen tube. Fate turns; he turns faster. The image of the pink pixie shuts off. His HUD displays:

===== Connection Lost =====

The man roars like the space lion and wrestles the air tube until he rights himself in a sea of corpses. He paws past Han, past gentle Clare, past that banshee Nancy-Jones, and launches himself out of the kill zone. At long last he raises his bowed head and sees the devastation of Watcher Station 6 — his home. Its shorn segments are now in a burning arc around Io. A reactor explodes noiselessly far ahead. Adrenaline enters his blood; he must find his bearings! His head darts left and right until he finds them: the massive red "12" and "14" marking the observation and habitation bays behind him. Bay 17's escape pods can't be far! Luck! Finally, some luck!

Humans come up this far to find that great vault spangled with star-eyed angels, or maybe to hear the ghosts of their loved ones, but all they find is this silence. This damned stupid, humming void! Another segment explodes, firing debris towards him. He pushes off another floating corpse, dodging in a spiral around charred pieces of another segment tearing the heavens with the speed of bullets. Looking at one of the pieces, he sees "15"! Almost there.

He will survive. He will find that stupid girl who asked all those annoying questions. And tell her… Tell her what?

Silence. After my wife died, all those days at the station melted together: up at 5:00 universal time, feed at 12:00, lights out at 20:00 universal time. Toil and meetings and talk. Talking, talking, talking, but all I heard was the buzz of silence.

Until that stupid girl! War? Aliens? I couldn't give less of a damn about such nonsense! I could have finally had peace blanketed in stars. I could have had the real quiet all men openly and secretly yearn for. "16"! Fifty seconds of air left, and the emergency sirens send the mad pulse to his heart. Seventeen! He squeezes the air tube between his legs and lets out the last of the oxygen to reach the bay doors.

"EMPTY! EMPTY! EMPTY!" The klaxons blare.

"SHUT UP!" I don't care if it's empty. I don't care if the whole damn universe is empty.

I will find her! And I will tell her!


Thank you, I'm your biggest fan now.


===== Io Colony News =====

"Good evening. The wreckage of Watcher Station 6 is still falling over Loki Patera, and if you step outside, you will see it — a slow rainbow across the caldera: vermilion, lilac, sulfur-green, and gold. Officials call it 'a glorious memorial to honour the fallen, in the colours of our honoured flag.' Residents watching from across the rim report that it is 'like the beauty of life passing overhead.'

But it is also the enemy's ghastly calling card. A reactor meltdown, triggered by an insectoid infestation, is the latest atrocity in a war the Bugs brought to our doorstep. You are watching a solemn reminder that we must all unite against our common foe, and that our sacrifices will never be in vain. No survivors are expected.

The lone voice from the disaster came from a maintenance engineer on routine EVA, spared the initial attack by working overtime. Footage shows him rushing back into danger in a heroic attempt to save a segment of the station — but the infestation was too great. His final and only interview, memorialized by the up-and-coming war idol "Chip," is now the most-watched segment in the history of the colonial feed. We salute her, as all Io patriots salute her, for bringing a hero back home to our hearts. The network has called him a fan — a true fan to the end, and proud to sacrifice. A memorial fund opens tonight. More, after the break."
